1) Quick hardening checks for linking

These are small, but they prevent the weird edge cases that show up in real usage.

A) Authorization checks

Make sure the link/unlink endpoints:

require provider auth (you already do)

do not leak whether a case exists to non-auth requests (return 401 before 404)

B) Idempotency

If you POST link-intake with the same case ID:

return { ok: true, status: "already_linked" }

don’t error

If you DELETE when it’s already unlinked:

return { ok: true, status: "already_unlinked" }

This keeps UI clicks from causing “why is this erroring” confusion.

C) Audit events (super helpful)

Log a small event:

ENCOUNTER_LINKED_TO_INTAKE

ENCOUNTER_UNLINKED_FROM_INTAKE

Even if it’s just in your case/encounter record as an array, it’s priceless for debugging.

2) Tiny UX polish (high payoff)
A) Show “Linked” badge + timestamp

In CaseDetail, show:

Linked to Intake Case: CASE_...

Linked at: timestamp

B) One-click “Open Intake Packet” inside CaseDetail

Even with the Export Pack, make one “Open Packet” button always visible at top of the panel.

C) Better linking flow (optional)

Instead of pasting a case ID, allow:

dropdown of “recent unlinked cases”

filtered by last 24h, or by patient phone (if stored)

You can add this later; your current paste-from-clipboard is already excellent.

3) The big unlock: you’re now ready for eCW Stage 2 without changing UI

Because Export Pack is now on the encounter, when eCW comes online the same panel can gain two new sections:

“EHR Sync”

Connect to eCW (SMART OAuth)

Match patient

Attach intake packet to the encounter

Attach note draft to the encounter

Pull meds/allergies/problems

You won’t need to rebuild workflow. You’ll just add buttons that replace copy/paste with “Send to eCW.”

4) Recommended next step (now that linking is done)

If you haven’t already flipped these in a real environment, do:

A) Firestore as default

STORAGE_DRIVER=firestore

index deployed

golden path passes

B) Firebase Storage as default uploads

UPLOADS_MODE=firebase_storage

confirm attachments view works for new uploads

confirm backward compatibility still works for any legacy local files

Once those are on, you’re production-shaped.

5) One small security reminder

You currently use:

localStorage.setItem("providerKey", "provider-secret-key-2026")


That’s fine for dev. Before real use:

swap providerKey for a real login token (JWT / session cookie)

keep provider endpoints protected properly

Not urgent today, but it’s the obvious next hardening milestone.

“Victory lap” test you should run once

Create test intake → submit → upload file

Link case to encounter

Confirm Export Pack appears

Click:

Copy Note

Copy Billing

Open Packet

View Attachments

Unlink → confirm Export Pack disappears and Link card returns

If that’s green, you’ve nailed the workflow.

If you tell me what your encounter datastore is (Firestore collection name / SQL table name) and whether encounters already have a “notes” field, I can suggest the cleanest place to store the intake case reference + link audit events so it stays consistent with your longer-term eCW sync plan.